---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 01 09-11-20"
date:   2020-09-11 00:00:00 +0000
categories: blogs
---
I never understood the IT world’s fascination with Linux operating systems until taking the CIT classes I have at CSUN. The first computer I ever used was running Windows 95. I spent the rest of my childhood and early adult life using all the versions of Windows that came after. 

During my sophomore year I decided to buy a MacBook Pro which ran MacOS, obviously. This was my first exposure to a non-windows machine, and I realized that there was a lot more out there than just Windows. Later that year I had to setup a few virtual machines running Windows Server 2008, Windows 10, and CentOS. 

My first impressions on CentOS were: confusing, different, and complicated. My opinions quickly shifted after learning how most Linux operating systems work. I found it refreshing learning that all default files and folders had a simple but important purpose. System files were kept separate from user files and user profiles could be easily configured for specific tasks. 

The biggest learning curve was interacting with an operating system through the terminal versus through a GUI. While there are GUIs available for most Linux operating systems, I have found that using the terminal has many more benefits including much more control and being sure of what the commands are going to change/do. 

I think we should take a minute to really appreciate the level of control Linux operating systems give administrators and how different everything would be if Windows was the only option. 
