---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 08 10-30-20"
date:   2020-10-30 00:00:00 +0000
categories: blogs
---
Some of the support tickets I read really make me question how ¬some people are able to drive to my workplace safely. This week I had the absolute pleasure of reading tickets from someone who didn’t understand the basics of electricity and someone who didn’t understand the concept of not opening email attachments from unknown sources. 

The first person had dropped off a computer for an issue with power. Specifically, they said their computer stopped powering on after a few weeks of them having it. To my annoyance they had dropped off their computer without the charger but luckily, we had a spare. To commence my troubleshooting process, I took the computer, plugged it into our AC adapter, and hit the power button. The computer turned on right away. I re-read the ticket to make sure I was looking at the right computer. This was definitely the one that had an issue powering on. I called the client back in confusion and after speaking to them for a few minutes I understood the problem. I had asked the client if the AC adapter at home showed a green light on it when plugged into the wall. The client said, “What AC adapter?”. The client was under the impression that laptop batteries had infinite power. I had to describe, in detail, why laptop batteries must be charged and how not charging them leads to them the computer not turning on. 

The second person had dropped off a computer for an issue with popups appearing on every website they navigated to. To commence my troubleshooting process, I powered on the computer, opened up chrome, and navigated to a few websites in different tabs. Every tab I opened got redirected to another website advertising tech support services. I began the process of backing up the client’s data and decided to look at their account and ticket history to see if they had an anti-virus software on file. I opened their account and was immediately horrified at the 15+ tickets created in the last 6 months for this exact same issue. I finished the work on the computer and decided to call this client to get a better idea of why this was happening. As it turned out, this client kept downloading attachments sent to him by an email address designed to look like an apple support email. I instructed the client not to open these attachments and blocked the email address from sending him more mail. Hopefully this is the last we see of this client. 
