---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 05 10-09-20"
date:   2020-10-09 00:00:00 +0000
categories: blogs
---
COVID has impacted the IT world substantially and will continue to impact it in the near future. 

Until recently I haven’t really thought about or paid much attention to the changes that have happened in my workplace because they slowly became my new normal. While mask wearing and social distancing guidelines were commonplace everywhere almost immediately, the changes in workplace policies came at a much slower rate. This week I really got to see the impact that COVID has had on my workplace.

Before the pandemic, my workplace didn’t offer many remote jobs and had a different attitude toward employee relations/safety. As local governments started implementing more laws and regulations my employer followed suit and changed our business model to conform. As a result of these changes my workplace’s culture has shifted tremendously. 

I got to see the result of one of these changes directly this week when one of my coworkers contracted COVID-19. Upper management combed through hundreds of hours of security camera footage to determine who was in contact with this individual and ordered those that were to go home and get tested. Because of the massive layoffs the company had to push through, there wasn’t a contingency plan in place to replace those that had to be sent home. This resulted in a massive loss of productivity, a huge shift of workloads, and a huge loss in revenue. 

This was substantial to me because I always figured that my company would have a better plan in place if something like this happened. The reality is that COVID-19 has made it next to impossible to fill in gaps when they occur because of the layoffs it has created. As far as the workforce goes, I’ve never seen such a massive amount of remote work being done before this. The company is even thinking about making some of these roles permanent given the uncertainty of what will happen next. While these changes may seem small to some, one must consider that these changes are not specific to one company but to most. It is a scary thought realizing that many companies are on the brink of non-operation because of the lower staff levels that they have. 
